# langgen_class_project
This is a repository intended to store code artifacts related to my COMS 6998 Natural Language Generation and Summarization (taught by Professor Kathleen McKeown) course project in using language models to decrypt enciphered text.

To install dependencies, please use the repositories included requirements.txt file. All code files are Jupyter Notebooks written in Python.

Data downloading, generation, and processing can be found in the notebook "data_prep" and to run it simply run the cells in order. It will take time to download the Gigaword corpus and will save locally. Please modify filepaths for the processed/modified corpus to match your local file system as needed. For training baseline and first experiments ran (1 and 2) see the "training" and "training_long" files. Once again, simply run the cells in order to execute the code. The evaluation code and outputs for experiments 1 and 2 can be found in the "evaluate" notebook. The next 3 experiments can be found completely self contained in files "half_caesar", "partial_obfuscation", and "word_obfuscation" (in that order for experiments 3-5). Unlike the previously mentioned notebooks, these notebooks contain data prep, training, and evaluation code where each of these sections are separated by Markdown cell blocks. The "demo" notebook is intended to showcase example generations for each of the models saved from previous notebook runs and is not necessary to run to repeat the 5 conducted experiments. Lastly, note that file "test_FLANT5" is intended as a sandbox notebook to test out baseline generation and encipherment/decipherment code. It is not necessary to run this file for the aforementioned files to work and is purely optional to test things out. 
For more information on the purpose of each experiment, see the project's paper.
